Custom authenticator main OKTA-508649 (#3491)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/authenticators-admin/index.md

## Authenticators Administration operations

The Authenticators Administration API has the following CRUD operations:

* [Create Authenticator](#create-authenticator)
* [List Authenticators](#list-authenticators)
* [Get an Authenticator by ID](#get-an-authenticator-by-id)
* [Update Authenticator settings](#update-authenticator-settings)
* [Activate an Authenticator](#activate-an-authenticator)
* [Deactivate an Authenticator](#deactivate-an-authenticator)

### Create Authenticator

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/authenticators" />

Create an Authenticator

> **Note:** You can use this operation as part of the "Create a custom authenticator" flow. See the [Custom authenticator integration guide](/docs/guides/authenticators-custom-authenticator/android/main/).

#### Request path parameters

N/A

#### Request query parameters

| Parameter | Description                                                                                           | Param Type | DataType      | Required | Default |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ------------- | -------- | ------- |

> | activate  | Executes [activation lifecycle](#activate-an-authenticator) operation when creating the authenticator | Query      | Boolean       | FALSE    | TRUE    |

Author: @lalithapidaparthi-okta Can you shed some light? Thank you :)

> | activate  | Executes [activation lifecycle](#activate-an-authenticator) operation when creating the authenticator | Query      | Boolean       | FALSE    | TRUE    |

Reviewer: @susanharper-okta @brentschaus-okta - Yes, the `activate` parameter is optional. If this is not sent in with a `true` value, admin will have to perform `activate an authenticator` separately later.

> | activate  | Executes [activation lifecycle](#activate-an-authenticator) operation when creating the authenticator | Query      | Boolean       | FALSE    | TRUE    |

Author: Okay @lalithapidaparthi-okta I'll add a note to the docs. Good catch @susanharper-okta

| `settings.compliance.fips` | String (Enum) | `REQUIRED`, `OPTIONAL` | `okta_verify` |
| `settings.channelBinding.style` | String | `NUMBER_CHALLENGE` | `okta_verify` |
| `settings.channelBinding.required` | String (Enum) | `NEVER`, `ALWAYS`, `HIGH_RISK_ONLY` | `okta_verify` |
| `settings.userVerification` | String (Enum) | `REQUIRED`, `PREFERRED` | `okta_verify`, `custom_app` |

> | `settings.appInstanceId` | String | The application instance ID. For `custom_app`, an OIDC native app would need to be created using the [Apps API](/docs/reference/api/apps/) with `Authoriation Code`, and `Refresh Token` grant types. `Sign-in redirect URIs` and `Sign-out redirect URIs` can be left as the default values. | `okta_verify`, `custom_app` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `settings.appInstanceId` | String | The application instance ID. For `custom_app`, you need to create an OIDC native app using the [Apps API](/docs/reference/api/apps/) with `Authorization Code`, and `Refresh Token` grant types. You can leave both `Sign-in redirect URIs` and `Sign-out redirect URIs` as the default values. | `okta_verify`, `custom_app` |
```

> | `provider.type` | String | Provider type. For Duo: `DUO`. For Custom App: `PUSH` | `duo` and other authenticators making use of the provider object |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `provider.type` | String | Provider type. Supported value for Duo: `DUO`. Supported value for Custom App: `PUSH` | `duo` and other authenticators making use of the provider object |
```

| `provider.configuration.host` | String | The Duo Security API hostname | `duo` |
| `provider.configuration.integrationKey` | String | The Duo Security integration key | `duo` |
| `provider.configuration.secretKey` | String | The Duo Security secret key | `duo` |
| `provider.configuration.userNameTemplate.template` | String | The Duo Security user template name | `duo` |

> | `provider.configuration.apns.id`| String | Id of the APNs (Apple Push Notification Service) [configuration](/docs/reference/api/push-providers/) | `custom_app` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `provider.configuration.apns.id`| String | ID of the APNs (Apple Push Notification Service) [configuration](/docs/reference/api/push-providers/) | `custom_app` |
```

| `provider.configuration.apns.id`| String | AppBundleId for the APNs (Apple Push Notification Service) [configuration](/docs/reference/api/push-providers/) | `custom_app` |
| `provider.configuration.apns.id`| String | DebugAppBundleId for the APNs (Apple Push Notification Service) [configuration](/docs/reference/api/push-providers/) | `custom_app` |

> | `provider.configuration.fcm.id` | String  | Id of the FCM (Firebase Cloud Messaging Service) [configuration](/docs/reference/api/push-providers/) | `custom_app` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `provider.configuration.fcm.id` | String  | ID of the FCM (Firebase Cloud Messaging Service) [configuration](/docs/reference/api/push-providers/) | `custom_app` |
```

> | `methods.type` | String  | Method type. For `custom_app`, it is `push`. For `okta_verify`, allowed values: `push`, `otp`, `signed_nonce`| `custom_app`, `okta_verify` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `methods.type` | String  | Method type. Supported value for `custom_app`: `push`.  Supported values for `okta_verify`: `push`, `otp`, `signed_nonce`| `custom_app`, `okta_verify` |
```

| `methods.status` | `ACTIVE`,`INACTIVE` | Status of the authenticator method | `custom_app`, `okta_verify`|

> | `methods.settings.algorithms` | String (Enum) | Algorithms supported. Allowed values: `RS256`, `ES256` | `custom_app`, `okta_verify` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `methods.settings.algorithms` | String (Enum) | Algorithms supported. Supported values: `RS256`, `ES256` | `custom_app`, `okta_verify` |
```

> | `methods.settings.keyProtection` | String (Enum) | Key Protection. Allowed values: `ANY`, `HARDWARE` | `custom_app`, `okta_verify` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `methods.settings.keyProtection` | String (Enum) | Key Protection. Supported values: `ANY`, `HARDWARE` | `custom_app`, `okta_verify` |
```

> | `agreeToTerms` | Boolean | A value of `true` indicates that the administrator accepts the [terms](https://www.okta.com/privacy-policy/) for creating a new authenticator. It is required for the terms to be accepted when creating a new `custom_app` authenticator. Other authenticators do not require this field. | `custom_app`|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `agreeToTerms` | Boolean | A value of `true` indicates that the administrator accepts the [terms](https://www.okta.com/privacy-policy/) for creating a new authenticator. Okta requires that you accept the terms when creating a new `custom_app` authenticator. Other authenticators don't require this field. | `custom_app`|
```

| `settings.compliance.fips` | String (Enum) | `REQUIRED`, `OPTIONAL` | `okta_verify` |
| `settings.channelBinding.style` | String | `NUMBER_CHALLENGE` | `okta_verify` |
| `settings.channelBinding.required` | String (Enum) | `NEVER`, `ALWAYS`, `HIGH_RISK_ONLY` | `okta_verify` |
| `settings.userVerification` | String (Enum) | `REQUIRED`, `PREFERRED` | `okta_verify`, `custom_app` |

> | `settings.appInstanceId` | String | The application instance ID. For `custom_app`, you need to create an OIDC native app using the [Apps API](/docs/reference/api/apps/) with `Authorization Code`, and `Refresh Token` grant types. You can leave both `Sign-in redirect URIs` and `Sign-out redirect URIs` as the default values. | `okta_verify`, `custom_app` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `settings.appInstanceId` | String | The application instance ID. For `custom_app`, you need to create an OIDC native app using the [Apps API](/docs/reference/api/apps/) with `Authorization Code` and `Refresh Token` grant types. You can leave both `Sign-in redirect URIs` and `Sign-out redirect URIs` as the default values. | `okta_verify`, `custom_app` |
```

  }
}
```

#### Example Duo Authenticator

> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```json
```

    "status": "ACTIVE",
    "name": "Duo Security",
    "created": "2022-07-15T21:14:02.000Z",
    "lastUpdated": "2022-07-15T21:14:02.000Z",
    "settings": {},
    "provider": {
        "type": "DUO",
        "configuration": {
            "host": "{Duo Org Hostname}",
            "userNameTemplate": {
                "template": "oktaId"
            }
        }
    },
    "_links": {
        "self": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/authenticators/aut5gnvcjUHIWb25J0g4",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET",
                    "PUT"
                ]
            }
        },
        "deactivate": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/authenticators/aut5gnvcjUHIWb25J0g4/lifecycle/deactivate",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "POST"
                ]
            }
        },
        "methods": {
            "href": "https://{yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/authenticators/aut5gnvcjUHIWb25J0g4/methods",
            "hints": {
                "allow": [
                    "GET"
                ]
            }
        }
    }
}
```

#### Example Custom App Authenticator

> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```json
```
